Orthodox systems tend to put the focus
on parents and children this different
way of working does not do that this
different way of working shifts the
focus from parents and children to the
wider family system what in fact it's
saying is that parents and children
belong to a wider family system and it's
that wider family system that is
responsible for sorting out problems as
they arise
we've got to have a discussion with
families and we've got to find a better
way of having a discussion with family
groups when we need a plan about a child
to enable a discourse to take place
between two legitimate interests the
first legitimate interest is you you've
got the concern you've done the
investigation and the assessment and so
it's right and proper that you bring
this concern to the family the second
legitimate interest is the family group
itself the problem is that most often
this dialogue is happens on unequal
terms agencies come to the situation
from a position of power families come
to the position to the discussion from a
position of powerlessness an important
purpose of the family group conference
is to mitigate this power imbalance and
for this reason we have an independent
person called a coordinator who brings
the two sides together it's the person
the coordinators job is to set up the
meeting so that this discussion can take
place
all around the world wherever fairly
good confidence is being used agreement
is reached between families and
professionals and how many cases what
percentage do you think 90% of cases
isn't that amazing
doesn't not just the Mallory's down in
New Zealand but the people of Canada
Australia all those other places nine
times out of ten when you work with a
family differently you will reach
agreement with them that you can live
with and a family conference is not just
a one-off meeting it's a process over
time so it begins with the referral and
it ends when the plans finished we
believe in New Zealand that every time a
family group conference is formed it
becomes a little Tribune or a little
board that stays in existence until the
plan is finished and can be brought back
to meet again if the plans not going
right so we've got to think about it as
a process over time rather than just an
event I went off event